
=head1 NAME

stellarium - A real-time realistic planetarium

=head1 SYNOPSIS

stellarium [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Stellarium is a free GPL software which renders realistic skies in real
time with OpenGL. It is available for Linux/Unix, Windows and MacOSX.
With Stellarium, you really see what you can see with your eyes, 
binoculars or a small telescope.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--version> (or B<-v>)

Print program name and version and exit.

=item B<--help> (or B<-h>)

Print a brief synopsis of program options and exit.

=item B<--config-file> I<name> (or B<-c> I<name>)

Use an I<name> for the config filename instead of "config.ini".

=item B<--user-dir> I<dir> (or B<-u> I<dir>)

Instead of using the default user data directory ($HOME/.stellarium 
on *nix operating systems), use I<dir>.

=item B<--full-screen> I<yes|no> (or B<-f> I<yes|no>)

With argument I<yes> or I<no> over-rides the full screen setting in the 
config file.  From version 0.10.0 the specified setting will become the
default for subsequent invocations of Stellarium.

=item B<--screenshot-dir> I<dir>

Set the directory into which screenshots will be saved to I<dir>, 
instead of the default (which is $HOME on *nix operating systems).

=item B<--home-planet> I<planet-name>

Specify observer planet (I<planet-name> is an English name, and should 
refer to an object defined in the F<ssystem.ini> file).

=item B<--altitude> I<alt>

Specify the initial observer altitude, where I<alt> is the altitude in 
meters.

=item B<--longitude> I<lon>

Specify the initial observer longitude, where I<lon> is the longitude.
The format is illustrated by this example: +4d16'12" which refers
to 4 degrees, 16 minutes and 12 arc seconds East.  Westerly longitudes 
should be prefixed with "-".

=item B<--latitude> I<lat>

Specify the initial observer latitude, where I<lat> is the latitude.
The format is illustrated by this example: +53d58'16.65" which refers
to 53 degrees, 58 minutes and 16.65 arc seconds North.  Southerly 
latitudes should be prefixed with "-".

=item B<--list-landscapes>

Print a list of value landscape IDs and exit.

=item B<--landscape> I<id>

Start using landscape whose ID (dir name), as seen in the output of 
B<--list-landscapes>.

=item B<--sky-date> I<date>

Specify sky date in format yyyymmdd.

=item B<--sky-time> I<time>

Specify sky time in format hh:mm:ss.

=item B<--fov> I<fov>

Specify the field of view (I<fov> degrees).

=item B<--projection-type> I<p>

Specify projection type, I<p>.  Permitted values of I<p> are: equalarea, 
stereographic, fisheye, cylinder, mercator, perspective, and orthographic.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUE

=over

=item 0

Completed successfully.

=item [other]

Some sort of error.

=back

=head1 FILES

Note: file locations on non-*nix operating systems (include OSX) may vary.  
Please refer to the the Stellarium User Guide for more details, as well
as information on how to customise the Stellarium data files.

=over

=item F<$HOME/.stellarium/>

This is the User Data Directory, which may be over-ridden using command line 
options.  It contains the user's settings, extra landscapes, scripts, and can 
also be used to over-ride data files which are provided with the default 
install.

=item B<[install prefix]/share/stellarium/>

This is the Installation Data Directory. F<[install prefix]> is defined at 
compile time and will typically be something like F</usr> or F</usr/local>.

=item F<[user data directory]/config.ini>

The main configuration file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

celestia(1).

=head1 NOTES

Sources of more information:

=over

=item Websites

Main website: L<http://stellarium.org/>

Wiki: L<http://stellarium.org/wiki/>

Forums: L<http://sourceforge.net/forum/forum.php?forum_id=278769>

Downloads: L<https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=48857>

Support Requests:

Bug Tracker:

=item The Stellarium User Guide

Visit the downloads page to get a PDF copy of the Stellarium User Guide.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please report bugs using the bug tracker link in the NOTES section 
of this page.

=head1 AUTHOR

Fabien Chéreau, Rob Spearman, Johan Meuris, Matthew Gates, 
Johannes Gajdosik, Nigel Kerr, Andras Mohari.

x14817

=head1 HISTORY

=over

=item on: 2008-08-28, Initial version of this document.

=back

=cut



